# Investigation-and-Technological-Development-of-a-Taillight-to-be-Approved-in-the-Automotive-Industry
This internship report stems from a partnership established between the Department of Physics at the University of Aveiro and the company SIM - Sociedade Irmãos Miranda, S.A.This partnership allowed the design and development of a taillight to be used in the automotive industry, using LEDs as the light source. The design of the taillight focused on its application in trucks, and thus, the analysis of technical drawings of truck taillights was carried out. In this way, the analysis of the range of LEDs focused on their optical characterization, using spectrometers from the Department of Physics at the University of Aveiro. Similarly, an optical characterization of the materials frequently used by SIM allowed for the analysis of the material’s influence on the propagation of the light beam and the interference in the beam’s colorimetry. For this purpose, an experimental setup was carried out at SIM using a luximeter. This characterization served as a basis for approaching the development of the taillight. Using LucidShape software, the project was divided into stages to analyze the propagation of the light beam, aiming to ensure the necessary angular projection for the functions under analysis. The first stage consisted of inserting a collimator grid and analyzing the created light focus. The second stage involved an individual analysis of each function by implementing various lens grids to ensure angular coverage, and in the final stage, an exit polymer was added to ensure the color and the necessary intensities for homologation.
